# Lesson 5

## Sorting

When `sort` is called without arguments, it coerces all the array elements except those that are `undefined` to their string equivalents, then sorts them using string comparisons

`undefined` values are a special case when it comes to sorting. They are always placed at the end of the array no matter what the other values are:

```jsx
[undefined, 11, 'z', 'x', 'y', undefined].sort()
```

returns `[11, 'x', 'y', 'z', undefined, undefined]` [2]

### UTF-16

Operators like `<` , `>` , and `===` use the character's **code point** in the UTF-16 encoding to determine the string order. 

When comparing or sorting strings

- Uppercase letters come before lowercase letters
- Digits and most punctuation come before letters
- There are several punctuation characters between the uppercase and lowercase letters, and several more that come after all of the letters
- There is an extended ASCII table that contains accented and other characters - this comes after the main ASCII table
- All other UTF-16 characters come after the extended ASCII table and have a code point of at least 256

## Nested Data Structures

### Shallow Copying Arrays

One way to copy an array is to use the `Array.prototype.slice` method without arguments:

```jsx
let arr = ['a', 'b', 'c'];
let copyOfArr = arr.slice();
copyOfArr; // => ['a', 'b', 'c'];
```

A more modern way is to use the **spread syntax** which uses `...` to expand an array to a list of values:

```jsx
let arr = ['a', 'b', 'c'];
let copyOfArr = [...arr];
copyOfArr; // => ['a', 'b', 'c'];
```

In a **shallow copy** only the top level array is copied. When the array contains other objects, like a nested array, then those objects are **shared**, not copied

### Shallow Copying Objects

`Object.assign` can be use to create a copy of an object by providing an empty object as the first argument

```jsx
let obj = { a: 'foo', b: 'bar' };
let copyObj = Object.assign({}, obj);
copyOfObj; // => { a: 'foo', b: 'bar' }
```

### Deep Copy

```jsx
let arr = [{ b: 'foo', ['bar']];
let serializedArr = JSON.stringify(arr);
let deepCopiedArr = JSON.parse(serializedArr);
```

Object that have methods and complex objects like dates or custom objects cannot be deep-cloned with this technique

The `JSON.stringify` function **serializes** any object, including arrays, that only have primitives, arrays, and plain objects as elements. Serializing involves converting an object to a string form that can be subsequently converted back into an identical object. The `JSON.parse` function performs that conversion from a string back to an object

### Freezing Objects

Objects can be frozen using the `Object.freeze` function to prevent them from being modified

```jsx
let obj = Object.freeze({ a: 'foo' });
let arr = Object.freeze(['a', 'b', 'c']);

obj['b'] = 'bar';
obj; // => { a: 'foo' }

arr.push('d'); // => TypeError: Cannot add property 3, object is not extensible
arr; // => [ 'a', 'b', 'c' ]
```

## Working with Callback Functions

### Functions as First-Class Values and Higher Order Functions

**First-class value** or **first-class object** is used to describe values that can be passed to functions as arguments or returned by those functions

Functions that take other functions as arguments are called **Higher Order Functions**, as are functions that return other functions

Functions that we pass to other functions are called **callback functions**

```jsx
[[1, 2], [3, 4]].forEach(arr => console.log(arr[0]));
// 1
// 3
// => undefined
```

We're calling `Array.prototype.forEach` with a callback function:

`arr => console.log(arr[0])`

We use the array `[[1, 2], [3, 4]]` to call `forEach` . Each inner array is passed to the callback and assigned to the parameter `arr` . We then use the element reference operator `[]` to get the value at index `0` of the array. On the first invocation of the callback, `arr[0]` returns `1` and on the second it returns `3` . In each invocation `console.log` outputs a string representation of the value returned by `arr[0]` . Since this is a single statement callback, the callback's return value is the return value of `console.log(arr[0])` which is `undefined` . `forEach` doesn't do anything with this returned value though, and, since the return value of `forEach` is always `undefined` that is what gets returned

Ask the following questions when evaluating code:

- What type of action is being performed? Method call? Callback? Conditional? Something else?
- On what value is that action performed?
- What is the side-effects of that action (output or destructive action)?
- What is the return value of that action?
- Is the return value used by whatever instigated the action?

Action — Performed on — Side Effect — Return Value — Is Return Value Used?

**Don't mutate the collection that you're iterating through**