# Interview

[Methods and More](Interview%200a5e3810e0f3453192c9adb6787f6f99/Methods%20and%20More%204171365f31394842b5c5a0d4019f716f.md)

## Pedac script

### Problem

- Read the problem
- Ask the interviewer clarifying questions involving the problem

**"I’m going to start by breaking this problem down into its input and output”**

- **Write out the input and output**
- Write out explicit rules (if needed)

### Example/ Test Cases

- **Talk through examples/ test cases**
- Write implicit rules from the examples/ test cases (if needed)

### Algorithm

- **Use a small, concrete examples to determine what needs to be done**
- **Then write out algorithm**
- **Solve for simplest test case first**

"Just thinking at a high level, to solve this problem I would ….”

### Code

**"I'm going to declare the function ___ with the parameter ___. I'm also going to write out this `console.log` with the function ___ passed into it as an argument so I can test while I code** 

"Before jumping into coding I want to make sure I have the right methods in mind"

“Before I use this method, let me test it out and see if it works the way I think it does.” 

- **Test while you code and mention what it should output**

“That isn’t the result I expected, I'm going to go back and review the algorithm to see if I need to make any changes there first before revising the code.”

- Switch from code implementation mode to abstract problem solving mode when necessary
- Don't try to problem solve at the code level

### Speaking to Interviewer

That's a great point!

Yes you're right!

I see exactly what you mean!

```jsx
/*
-
-
-
go through test cases

input -
output -

write out algorithm

*/
```

## Study plan

- [x]  watch all videos
- [x]  take notes video 4
- [x]  all small problems
- [x]  watch video 4
- [x]  complete codewars list

### Katas list

7 kyu

- [ ]  Return substring instance count 🔁
- [ ]  Alphabet symmetry  🔁
- [ ]  Longest vowel chain 🔁
- [x]  String Scramble
- [x]  Anagram detection
- [x]  Substring fun

6 kyu

- [ ]  Non-even substrings (solved but problem with random numbers)
- [ ]  Repeated substring (don't understand)
- [x]  Detect pangram
- [ ]  Kebabize (learn regex first)
- [x]  Dubstep
- [ ]  Take a Ten Minute Walk (don't understand)
- [x]  Stop gninnipS My sdroW!
- [x]  Write Number in Expanded Form
- [x]  Write Number in Expanded Form - Part 2
- [ ]  Persistent Bugger (no points)
- [x]  Title Case
- [x]  Find the Mine!
- [x]  Counter letters in string
- [x]  Longest alphabetical substring
- [x]  Split Strings
- [ ]  Anagram difference 🔁
- [x]  Highest Scoring Word
- [x]  Replace With Alphabet Position
- [x]  Mexican Wave
- [x]  Simple Fun # 79: Delete a Digit
- [x]  Multiples of 3 or 5
- [x]  String transformer
- [x]  Duplicate Encoder
- [ ]  Backspaces in string 🔁
- [x]  Transform to Prime
- [x]  Counting Duplicates
- [ ]  Alphabetized (don't understand)
- [x]  Sum of Digits / Digital Root
- [x]  Where is my parent!?(cry)
- [x]  Playing with digits
- [x]  Equal Sides Of An Array
- [x]  Reverse or rotate?
- [x]  Decipher this!
- [x]  Bouncing Balls
- [x]  WeIrD StRiNg CaSe
- [x]  Are they the "same"?
- [ ]  Find the Nexus of Codewars Universe
- [x]  Triple trouble
- [x]  Which are in?
- [x]  Format a string of Names like 'Bart, Lisa & Maggie'
- [x]  Find the missing letter
- [x]  Who likes it?
- [x]  Find the Parity Outlier
- [x]  Is Integer Array?
- [ ]  Basic 06: Reversing and Combining Text (no points)
- [x]  Integer reduction

5 kyu

- [x]  Return substring instance count - 2
- [x]  Typoglycemia generator
- [ ]  Extract the domain name from a URL (no points)
- [x]  Scramblies
- [x]  The Hashtag Generator
- [x]  Pete, the baker
- [x]  Mean Square Error
- [ ]  Where my anagrams at? (no points)
- [x]  Largest product in a series
- [ ]  Sort Arrays - 3

4 kyu

- [x]  Most frequently used words in a text

### Small problems (re-do)

- [ ]  Easy 3 - Fibonacci number by length
- [ ]  Easy 3 - Clean up the words!
- [ ]  Easy 3 - What century is that?
- [ ]  Easy 4 - How old is Teddy?
- [ ]  Easy 5 - Combining arrays
- [ ]  Easy 5 - After Midnight (Part 1)
- [ ]  Easy 5 - After Midnight (Part 2)
- [ ]  Medium 1 - Fibonacci Number (Procedural)
- [ ]  Medium 1 - Fibonacci Number (Memoization)
- [ ]  Medium 2 - Letter Percentage
- [ ]  Medium 2 - Triangle sides
- [ ]  Medium 2 - Unlucky days
- [ ]  Medium 2 - Next Featured Number
- [ ]  Medium 2 - Bubble Sort
- [ ]  Medium 2 - Longest Sentence

Then go to Kata, then sort by 'most completed', then 'problems i have not solved'