# Written

## Declarations, initializations, assignments, and re-assignments ✅

### Declarations/ initializations

A **variable** **declaration** is a statement that asks Javascript to reserve space for a variable with a particular name and **initializes** the variable with a value. Variables are **declared** with keywords `let` and `const` .

`let foo` declares the variable `foo` . Whether we provide a value or not in a **declaration**, the variable is **initialized**. In this case,  since we didn't provide an explicit value, the **initial** value is `undefined` .

```jsx
> let firstName = 'Mitchell'
= undefined

> firstName = 'Martha'
= 'Martha'
```

### Assignment

The return value of an **assignment** is the value of the variable on the left hand side of the `=` . The **assignment operator** `=` is also used to assign a values to variables from right to left.  

```jsx
let foo;
foo = false; // => returns false
```

`let` statement always returns `undefined` 

```jsx
let foo = false; // => returns undefined
```

### Re-assignment

**Re-assignment** assigns a variable to a new value

## Variable scope, especially how variables interact with function definitions and blocks ✅

### Function definitions

Scoping rules

1. outer scope variables can be accessed by inner scope
2. inner scope variables can not be accessed by outer scope
3. peer scopes do not conflict meaning we can reuse a variable name in two different local scopes without them affecting each other
4. nested functions have their own variable scope
5. inner scope variables can shadow outer scope variables

A variable's **scope** determines where it is available in a program. The location where you declare a variable determines the it's **scope**.

```jsx
let a = 1; // outer scope variable
function logA() {
	console.log(a); // => 1 a is reassigned to a new value 
	a += 1;
}
logA();
console.log(a) // => 2 "a" was reassigned in the inner scope
```

This code demonstrates that **inner scoped** variables can access **outer scope** variables

```jsx
function funcA() {
	let a = 'hello'
	console.log(a);
} 

function funcB() {
	console.log(a); // => ReferenceError: a is not defined
}
funcA();
funcB();
```

Executing `console.log(a)` in the funcB definition logs an error because the initial `let a = 'hello'` is scoped within the funcA definition. Functions can not reference variables in another function

### Block scope

Scoping rules

1. outer blocks cannot access variables from inner scopes
2. inner blocks can access variables from outer scopes
3. variables defined in an inner block can shadow variables from outer scopes

Variables declared with keywords `let` and `const` have a **block scope**, so if a variable is declared within a block it can't be accessed outside of the block

```jsx
if (1 === 1) {
	let a = 'foo';
}
console.log(a) // Reference error: a is not defined
```

In this example, the condition in the if statement evaluates to true so `a` is declared with the `let` keyword and assigned to the string `foo` within the block of the if statement. We get an error because `let` creates a **block scoped** variable that isn't accessible outside of the if statement.

All undeclared variables have a **global scope:** they ignore block and function scope entirely. 

### Global vs. local variables

Any variable declared inside a function or block is a **local variable**; everything else is a **global variable** 

**Local variables** in Javascript have a **local scope** meaning you can't access them outside the function that declares them

### Function definitions and blocks

Parameters act like a local variable and is initialized from the argument passed into the function. Parameters have **local scope** within a function. Passing a variable into a function as an argument gives that function access to the variable, but it does not change the **scope** of the variable.

**When we invoke a function we start a new scope. The scope goes away along with any variables declared within the function block.**

## Primitive values, objects, and type coercions ✅

Javascript has 5 primitive data types (number, string, null, undefined, and boolean)

**Primitive values** are **immutable** meaning their values never change. Operations performed on immutable values always return new values.

### Type coercions

In **explicit coercion** you decide what happens using built in functions and operators to coerce one value to another.

`Number('1')` is an example of **explicit coercion** where `Number` takes the string value `'1'` and returns a number if the string contains a valid numeric value 

**Implicit coercion** happens when you perform a operation on values of two different types and Javascript coerces them to match the other.

Binary operator `+` rules

- Whenever one of the operands of the  `+`  operator is a string, the other operand is coerced into a string and concatenated with the string
- When both operands are a combination of numbers, `undefined` s , booleans, or `null` s they are converted to numbers and added together
- When one of the operands is an object both operands are converted to strings and concatenated together

## Object properties ❓

## Mutability vs. immutability vs. `const`

For both arrays in objects, if they are declared with the `const` keyword you can modify their contents but you can't change what it references.

You can use `Object.freeze` the contents but it only works one level deep so if the object contains nested arrays or another object, the values in them can be changed.

## Loose and strict equality

### Strict equality

The **strict equality** operator, `===`, returns `true` when operands have both the same type and value, `false` otherwise. The **strict inequality operator**, `!==` , returns `false` when operands have both the same type and value, `true` otherwise.

### Loose equality

The **loose equality** operator, `==` , returns `true` when both operands have the same value. If the operands have different types, `==` coerces one of the operands to the same type as the other operand before comparing. The **loose inequality** operator, `!=` , also coerces one of the operands to the operand's type returning `false` if values are the same and `true` otherwise.

`'1' == 1` here the non-strict equality operator **coerces the string `1` into a number** then compares it with the `1` on the right side. 

When both operands are objects, `==` behaves like `===` in that it only considers the two objects equal if they are the same object (same location in memory). However, when one of the operands is an object and the other is a primitive, `==` coerces the object to a primitive before comparing.

```jsx
> [] == '';
= true
> [] == 0;
= true
```

## Passing arguments into and return values out of functions

### Passing arguments

**Function composition** is a process to where you use a function call as an argument to another function. 

When we pass argument into a function, the argument is assigned to the parameter.

### Return values

If there is no explicit `return` in a function, the function implicitly returns `undefined`

## Working with strings

## Working with arrays, especially the iteration methods (`forEach` , `map` , `filter` , and `find` )

### Array methods

If a callback does not explicitly return a value it implicitly returns `undefined`

**Wording for callback**: **Each element is passed to the callback function and assigned to the parameter** `nameOfParam` **-** **explain callback function body**

### forEach

`forEach` is called on an array and takes a callback function as an argument. The code within the callback is executed with the value of the current element that `forEach` sends as an argument. 

`forEach` also passes a second argument, the index position of the element in the array, to the callback function

`forEach` always returns `undefined` .

### filter

**returns a NEW array
// invokes callback 1 for each element
// if return value of callback is truthy, places the element in newly returned array**

`filter` performs selection based on whether the return value of the callback function for each element in the calling array evaluates to `true`  and returns a new array with the selected values. 

If the return value of `filter` 's callback function evaluates to true during an iteration `filter` will select that element. When the element is selected it is placed in a new array to be returned that is returned by `filter`

`filter` will return a new array with all the elements from the original array if the callback return value evaluates true for all elements

### map

**returns a NEW array
// invokes callback 1 for each element
// places the return val of the callback into the new array**

`map` performs transformation returning a new array populated with the callback function's return value for each element in the calling array

`[1, 2, 3].map(num => num * 2)` in the example, the return value of the callback is the product of `num` and `2` . `map` then takes this value and puts in a new array for each element in the array that `map` was called on.

### reduce**

`reduce` takes two arguments, a callback function and a value that initializes the accumulator. The callback function takes two arguments as well, the element from the array it is called on and current value of the accumulator.

### find

`find` returns the first value which the callback value evaluates to true and if nothing evaluates to `true` `undefined` is returned

## Working with objects; accessing keys and values of an object as arrays

Object.values(objName) returns all the property values from the object passed in as an argument

Object.keys(objName) returns all the key values from the object passed in as an argument

You can access the keys (index values) of an array by using the `Object.keys` method

Object.entries(objName) returns an array of arrays where each subarray contains one of the key/value pairs from the object passed in as an argument 

## Arrays are objects; how to tell which you have in code

Arrays are objects so you can create "elements' with indexes that use negative or non-integer values. These elements aren't true elements. They are properties on the array object and do not count towards the length of the array but are included as the array's keys

Unset values, `[ <# empty items> ]`, in an array are set to `undefined` count towards the length of an array but are not included in the array's keys (even though values explicitly set to `undefined` are included in the keys)

All built-in array methods ignore properties that are not elements in an array

Sparse arrays ****where there is gaps in the array

You decide what empty is: you can either 

- use length property to determine whether the array is empty
- or object keys to determine whether the array is empty if we're ignoring gaps, keeping in mind that some of the object keys may not be unsigned integers

## Be able to explain what a function does without referring to its implementation; that is, be able to document a function's use and purpose

When naming functions the name should reflect what the function's use

`display`, `print`, `say` implies that you're going to do some output

`compute` implies that you're going to return the value of a computation

`update` implies that you're going to mutate something

## Understand the concepts of pass-by-reference and pass-by-value ✅

### Pass-by-value

**Pass by value** means when you use a variable to pass an argument to a function, the function can not do anything that sets the original variable to a different value. No matter what happens in the function, the variable will still contain the same value that was passed to the function

When you pass primitive values, Javascript is **pass-by-value**

```jsx
function cap(name) {
	name.toUpperCase();
}
let string = 'hello world';
cap(string);
console.log(string) // => 'hello world'
```

Primitive values are immutable

### Pass-by-reference

When an object is passed in as an argument to a function and the function mutates the object, Javascript is **pass-by-reference**.

```jsx
function addNames(arr, name) {
	arr.push(name);
}
let names = ['bob', 'kim']
arr.push(names, 'jim');
console.log(names) // => ['bob', 'kim', 'jim']
```

## Variables as pointers

### Primitives

Variables that have primitive values store those values in the variable, we do **not** store **pointers** to the primitive values in the variable

When we pass primitive values as an argument to a function, a copy of the primitive value. Primitive values are immutable so no matter what happens inside a function the original value passed to the function never changes

### Objects

Variables that have objects or arrays use **pointers** to reference them. 

The parameter assigned to the object acts as a pointer to the original object

Reassigning a variable that points to an object changes what the variable points to, it does not change the value of the original object 

## Console.log vs. return

## Truthiness vs. booleans ✅

### Truthy values

**Truthiness** differ from boolean values in that Javascript evaluates almost all values as `true` 

```jsx
let num = 5;
if (num) {
	console.log('valid number');
} else {
	console.log('error');
}
```

The code logs the string value `valid number` to the console. `num` is declared and initialized with the number `5`. In Javascript any non-zero number evaluates to true so since `num` is the condition in the if else statement the first block is executed logging the string value `valid number` to the console. 

**Boolean** is a data type that is strictly true or false.
**Truthiness** is how JS will evaluate other values in boolean terms

### Falsy values

The term falsy is used for values that **evaluate** to `false`

- NaN
- null
- undefined
- 0
- An empty string ( `''` )
- `false`

## Function definition and invocation

**Function definition** is the way you define a function

- declaration
- function expression
- arrow syntax

Functions that always return a boolean value, `true` or `false` are called **predicates**.

The call stack , or stack, is a to do list for **function invocations** (last in, first out) with the most recently **invoked function** being on top and the first **function invoked** on the bottom. Call stacks are processed from top to bottom. When a function is invoked the details of the function are pushed to the top and when a function returns the details of the invocation are popped off the top.

## Function declarations, function expressions, and arrow functions

### Function declarations

**Function declarations** are statements that must begin with the `function` keyword

```jsx
functionName();

function functionName (zeroOrMoreArguments) {
	// function body
}
```

With **function declarations**, you can invoke the function before declaring it

```jsx
foo(); // => logs second to the console

function foo() {
	console.log('first');
}

function foo() {
	console.log('second');
}
```

**Function declarations** with the same name replace the previously define function

### Function expressions

```jsx
let functionName = function (zeroOrMoreArguments) {
	// function body
}
```

Any function that doesn't have the word `function` at the beginning of the statement is a **function expression**

### Arrow functions

```jsx
let functionName = (zeroOrMoreArguments) => // function body;
```

When the function body only contains one line (expression) the `return` statement is implicit.

## Implicit return value of function invocations

## First-class functions

Functions are values meaning

- you can assign them to variables
- they can be passed around as arguments to other functions
- you can use them as return values in other functions

## Side-effects

A function has a **side effect** if anything it does alters what happens elsewhere in the program (not in the function)

A function causes **side effects** if it:

- modifying non local variables (reassigning a variable in the outer scope would be a side effect)
- mutates the value of any object reference by a non local variable (mutating array or object arguments)
- it reads or writes to a file, network connection, browser or system hardware (including writing to console log and reading input from the terminal)
- it raises an exception
- it calls another function that has side effects

Function should only return a meaningful value or should have a side effect, not both

There are exceptions where you have to do both. Examples being, when you read something from a database or if you read some input from a user's keyboard 

## Name conventions (legal vs idiomatic)

Variables names should describe the content of the variables (capture the intent of the variable)

**Naming conventions** 

- global constants - SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE
- classes or constructors - PascalCase
- everything else - camelCase

Variables the follow the above naming conventions are considered to be **idiomatic**. Syntactically valid names that don't follow the naming conventions are **non-idiomatic**

Use constant to avoid magic numbers (hard coded values)

## ** Operator precedence

- `<=` , `<` , `>` , `>=` - Comparison
- `==`, `!=` - Equality
- `&&` - Logical AND
- `||` - Logical OR

Parenthesis override precedence, meaning sub-expression in parenthesis get evualted before unparenthesized expressions